---
title: I'm Back!
date: 2025-01-23
category: Announcements
modified: 2025-01-23
tags: life-updates
summary: I've returned. And my blog still works
---

I haven't updated this blog since 2020, but lots of things happened between the end of 2020 and January 2025. I moved across the country from New York and settled down in Vancouver, Washington, at the start of the pandemic. During my time in the Pacific Northwest, besides continuing to expand KIP within Kepler, I made a bunch of friends, did a lot of hiking, played lots of trivia with an ever-rotating group, survived the pandemic, got engaged, and got pretty good at playing ukulele (shout-out to the [Doomsday Brewing](https://www.doomsdaybrewing.com/) safehouse, which has since become the [Pour Choices Pub](https://pourchoices.pub/), where I spent every Tuesday jamming with a great group).

Near the beginning of 2023, my fiancée and I began discussing whether the Pacific Northwest was for us. Over the next two years, we explored more of Portland and Seattle and ultimately concluded that it was time for us to get closer to immediate family. 2024 was a blur: a cross-country move, selling the house, bidding goodbye to friends, and making new ones.

Which brings me to this blog. Honestly, it's been so long since I've thought about it that I was curious whether it was still functional. It's a static site hosted on GitHub Pages (source code [here](https://github.com/pappasam/pappasam.github.io)), so I figured it probably works. Now that we're in a more stable place and not constantly exploring, if I'm able to publish this piece, I plan to publish more pieces in line with my interests. Through writing my thoughts down in a regular cadence, I hope I can both connect with folks who are interested in my thoughts and identify exciting new areas of exploration through long-form writing.

But that's all for now! Gotta go play some pickleball.
